Glory be to the Father...
- to the Son...
- Where is it?
...to the Holy Spirit.
As it was in the beginning,
is now, and ever shall be,
so help me god.
Where is it?!
Holy spirit...
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Oh, for the love of Christ.
Damn!
Yum. Tastes just like
a ham-and-cheese omelet.
Except without the ham
and the cheese and the omelet.
How did... what?
No. I am not playing "what not to wear"
at 8:30 in the morning.
Wh...
it's just pants and a shirt!
Well, it's just...
You're meeting Jack today,
And I want you to look as good
for him as you do for me.
Which is really good, by the way.
So you want me to wear
my Alexander Wang dress?
- You have an Alexander Wang dress?
- No.
Besides, I'd worry less
about what I'm wearing
and worry about yourself.
- Well, what are you talking about?
- Your earrings.
- They're Chanel.
- One of them is.
What?
- Wha...
- Mm-hmm.
Oh, god, what else am I missing?
Hopefully it's not something
that rhymes with the word "manties."
What? Where's your
usual confident demeanor?
Oh, I don't know. I just...
You know, I just...
I think that Jack is great.
And I just really want to make
a good first impression.
Which is silly,
because he's already met me,
so this is like a third
or fourth impression,
- and the science is unequivocal on whether...
- Okay.
In this early and awkward stage,
let's not concentrate
on what we're wearing.
Let's concentrate on remaining
calm and not scaring him off.
- Right.
- So, no talking about work.
Why? The body is
endlessly fascinating.
Yes, it is.
- But less so the insides.
- Fine.
Then what do I talk about when
something work-related comes up?
- Anything.
- Oh, you say anything, but...
Okay, okay.
Talk about puppies.
Puppies?
- Yeah, everybody loves puppies.
- True.
Inflammation on the
intestinal track of puppies...
The outsides, Maura.
Everybody loves
"the outsides" of puppies.
Keys.
See what happens when you get
rid of the Dewey decimal system?
I'm fairly certain this isn't
the work of some killer librarian.
Victim is Brendan McHale...
dealt in rare books.
Ooh, how rare?
Some of the ones used
as throw pillows,
they're worth
several thousand dollars.
Ooh. Somebody went big papi
on this safe over here.
Killer was looking for something.
Well, I doubt whatever's in there's worth
dying over, but I guess we'll find out.
- BPD's still got a safe guy, right?
- Tobin. He'll be here tomorrow.
That's not exactly the urgency
I was hoping for.
Oh, he's at a conference
in Las Vegas.
Why does everybody get
to go conferences except us?
What would we talk
about at a conference?
Baseball and how screwed up
senior management is.
You want to travel across
the country for that?
- If there was an open bar.
- Ah.
Jane, Korsak.
The bruising indicates that each
finger was broken separately,
in about five-minute intervals.
Frozen peas. Doubt he was
making a side dish.
The moisture on the epidermis
of the fully-broken right hand
is significantly higher than the left.
So the killer was using
the frozen peas as an ice pack
to keep him awake
while they tortured him.
Good times.
The vic's only employee
is wondering if he can leave.
You want to talk to him?
This is Ricky Kelly.
He works here at the book store.
He called us when
he found Brendan this morning.
- Who did that to him?
- We don't know yet.
- You have any ideas?
- No.
How long have you worked here?
- Little over three years.
- Do you know if Mr. McHale
was having any problems
with anybody?
No. Brendan made it a point
to get along with everyone.
How did you end up working here?
No offense, Ricky.
But you hardly seem
like the rare-books type.
Don't judge a book by its cover.
- I think that's the saying, right, detective?
- Yes, but I'd still like an answer.
I needed a job, he gave me one.
Simple as that.
In our experience,
things are rarely that simple.
You know what he kept
in the safe?
Nope.
- You know the combination or where he keeps it?
- Nope.
- Do you have an alibi for last night?
Look into this kid's background.
He didn't seem too
shaken up over his boss's death.
Which means he's
either guilty, or he's a
20-year-old street kid,
keeps his emotions to himself.
I think we should probably
figure out which it is.
Can you write your
contact information down
just in case we have
any more questions later?
Please?
He died of shock
due to an inadequate substrate
- for aerobic cellular respiration.
- He stopped breathing.
And his blood pressure
also plummeted.
His heartbeat skyrocketed,
his organs compensated,
shut down,
and then he stopped breathing.
- So, the torture caused him to die from shock.
- Yes. And it appears
that the killer thought
that Brendan had passed out.
He tried to revive him with a
slap, and then with amyl nitrate.
But Brendan was already dead
so there isn't any in his lungs,
but we did find traces of it on
the outer crest of his left nostril.
Hmm, well, we didn't find
any poppers at the scene,
but I can have a team search
the surrounding areas.
FYI, dead bodies not being
able to inhale amyl nitrate...
perfect example of what
not to talk to Jack about.
Jane, I hope you don't
have dinner plans.
Oh, actually, we do.
We're about to meet...
But...
You were saying...?
The officer guarding
the book store was attacked.
Our crime scene's been broken into.
- What?
- Yeah.
- Great. I'm sorry.
- Jack will understand.
- Can you reschedule for tomorrow?
- I will.
- Okay, and remember...
- I know. Catuli.
Ye... no, puppies.
Yes, that's "puppies" in Latin.
- Maura, I just don't want you...
- I know... screw up a relationship
with the first guy I like
who doesn't want to kill me.
Yes.
I was doing
a routine perimeter patrol.
Next thing I know, I wake up
staring at the ceiling.
And when you came to,
that's when you made the call?
Yeah, immediately.
The guy, uh, must have heard me
on the phone and took off.
- I tried to give chase, but...
- Woozy. Yeah, I get it.
- Did you catch a glimpse of his face?
- No.
But I could tell
he was a big guy... tall.
For you to say tall,
he must be a giraffe.
Take care of yourself, all right?
What is so valuable
that someone is going to break
into a guarded crime scene to get to?
Tobin the safecracker's still in Vegas.
I had the captain tell him
to catch a flight back tonight.
We have an inventory
of everything in the book shop.
Nothing of value's missing.
Well, whatever all this is
about, it must still be in here.
I'll be sure to get two units
to guard the place tonight.
Was Jack okay with us having
to reschedule dinner?
Oh, definitely.
He's very understanding.
He even made us a reservation
at a wonderful French restaurant.
- Do they have toast?
- French toast.
Yeah, set you up for that one.
It was right in my strike zone,
and I knocked it through the uprights.
And I've never been more proud
to call you my friend.
You should have seen me last night.
Not even one slipup
about a cold cadaver?
Nope. But did you know
you can cross a poodle
with almost any dog
to make it hypoallergenic?
- They're called doodles.
- Huh.
There are 50 different kinds.
There's labradoodles
and goldendoodles,
And, my favorite, the schnoodle.
It's a schnauzer/poodle.
Huh.
What happens if you cross one
with a poodle?
- Do you get a poo-poo doodle?
- No, it's just a poodle.
We found a popper vial in the
trash can near the book store.
I sent it over to the crime lab.
Great. Any word
on our wayward safecracker?
He's meeting you
at the book store in two hours.
Guess it takes that long
to wash the Vegas off you.
Based on how he sounded
on the phone,
I think you'll be lucky
if he puts in any effort at all.
So, I finished
the background check on Ricky,
that kid from the book store.
Beat cop in mission hills
said he was a troubled kid...
ran with the bad crowd.
He was a regular
at the precinct up there.
- He been in trouble recently?
- Oh, I'm glad you asked.
Two weeks ago, Ricky Kelly tried
to sell this illustrated page
- for 400 bucks.
- How did he get caught?
Well, the buyer
saw the straight edge
and was afraid it had been
cut out of a rare book.
If Ricky was arrested,
why didn't this pop up sooner?
He didn't get arrested.
When Brendan was contacted,
he said the page was his,
but he refused to press charges.
So Brendan gave him
a second chance?
Well, it's possible Ricky was just
doing the nickel-and-dime thefts
while he was waiting to get
whatever was inside the safe.
When he got caught,
he knew his time was up.
Solid theory.
Pretty sucky outcome,
- if that's what happened.
- You're telling me.
Everybody needs money.
You think I'm gonna
beat the hell out of him
for a couple hundred bucks?
We spoke to a cop
in your neighborhood,
he said you were suspected
of a lot of things.
I'll bet you didn't have good
reasons for doing those, either.
I'm not proud of what I've done, but...
but t-they don't add up to murder.
- I would never hurt Brendan.
- All right, then explain this.
I sold those, and others too,
just to pay bills in the store.
Did Brendan ask you to?
He didn't know.
Not until I got caught.
- And then what did he say?
- He gave me a dozen more
to frame and sell those,
too, if I wanted.
Well, he's not dead because
he's a bad businessman.
I don't know why he's dead.
Okay?
Brendan changed.
About six months ago, he
stopped caring about the store.
He stopped answering calls.
He stopped returning e-mails.
We hadn't sold books in months.
I had to frame and sell these
prints just to keep the lights on.
You have evidence
that you were doing that?
Yeah, I got all the invoices
at my apartment...
what I got,
what I spent the money on.
I wouldn't hurt Brendan, ever.
He came into
the Boys & Girls Club
about three years ago
and asked for an intern.
He gave me a job, and that
is what turned my life around.
When we first talked, you said,
"I needed a job, he gave me a job.
"simple as that."
Now you change your story?
Yeah, well,
the first time we met,
you said I didn't look
like the rare-book type,
- so I guess we'll just call it even.
- Okay.
What happened
to Brendan six months ago?
I don't know.
He stopped talking, and he
started going to church every day.
I thought it was because of me,
and then it turns out
it had nothing to do with me.
- It was just in his own head.
- But you don't know why?
I wish I did. Maybe I could
have done something to help him.
I heard you got something
off the amyl nitrate bottle?
Uh, no, it was clean.
Oh.
So why did you call me?
I had a crime tech go back
and get the trash-can lid
where the bottle was found, and...
- ...five solid prints.
- You're very good at your job.
Well, I have a very good light,
but thank you.
Do they match anyone in the AFIS?
I didn't run it through the system yet.
I wouldn't want to overstep my
bounds as the medical examiner.
But I've got them all set up
for you to do the search
through the database.
You weren't really gonna
run it through the system?
Oh, of course I was.
I just hadn't pressed "enter" yet.
Ah.
So, I heard you're dating someone?
I am. It's... been a
couple of times, but...
I mean, Jane hasn't
even met him yet.
Well, I'm sure she'll like him.
She likes everyone.
I mean, she likes everyone we like.
- She's an excellent judge of character.
- Okay.
Speaking of Jane, where is she?
She's at the crime scene with
Korsak and the safecracker.
Donald Maxwell.
Not the type of guy you
want to bring home to mother.
Not even his mother.
- Is that a hickey?
- What happens in Vegas.
What happens in Vegas
delayed our investigation.
Yeah, I was at a conference.
Is that what they call
the Strippers' Convention now?
They have conventions, too?
Looks like I didn't delay your
investigation at all, Geraldo.
Someone was trying hard
to break into an empty safe.
You know, whatever
we've been looking for,
I'm not sure that it's been
in here, at least not recently.
Maybe McHale knew the killer was
coming, hid it someplace else?
Yeah, hid it someplace else.
Or maybe...
the safe was just meant to be heavy.
Korsak, does that look odd to you?
Yeah, like somebody's
been messing with the baseboard.
Hey, lover boy,
can I borrow your crowbar?
It's Tobin.
You want me to do that for you?
You want me to hit you
in the nuts with it?
Great hiding place.
Not that it did him any damn good.
Father Cowens?
And when we
pried the baseboard off,
we found a book
with this note in it.
I'll save you the trouble of reading it.
It says "thanks."
So what was Brendan
asking you to do, father?
If anything ever happened to him,
I was to take what I'd found
to a Professor McTavish.
- McTavish? He at BCU?
- No, state.
- Why McTavish?
- I don't know.
I was to tell the professor
that the book was a riddle.
- A riddle?
- Yes.
Let me get this straight,
Father Cowens...
you were willing to steal evidence
to help a buddy solve a riddle?
Brendan was an esteemed member
of my church.
It was clear that something
was weighing heavy on his heart,
and he needed my help to free himself.
- I see that as my job, detective.
- Isn't that what confession's for?
Well, I'm a fan of the ritual.
But it doesn't always
give people what they need.
So he didn't confess anything that
seems relevant to my investigation?
Well, if he had, I wouldn't
discuss that with you.
- But no, he did not.
- So how did you know he had troubles?
For years, Brendan's been
a holiday catholic.
He'd show up for Easter, Christmas.
About six months ago, he started
coming to Sunday mass,
and then morning mass.
And for the last few months,
he's been the lay leader
bringing up the holy sacrament
for daily mass.
Didn't take
a rocket scientist to see
that Brendan was trying to fill
some sort of hole in his life.
And when were you
gonna go get the book?
As soon as you cleared out.
And my investigation would
have been stalled permanently.
At least you're honest,
I'll give you that.
I don't get it. It's a book.
It's old.
And, yes, old things are valuable,
but was Brendan McHale
so down on his luck
that he's gonna let someone kill
him as opposed to turning it over?
Well, Bill Gates paid $30
million for a Codex of Da Vinci's.
And yet, no one is breaking
his fingers to try and get it.
So my question stands.
And who is this McTavish guy
the priest was
supposed to take the book to?
Do you know him?
Uh, he's a professor
of literature at state.
I met him at a fundraiser
for the library.
You know, he's a superhero in the
world of illuminated manuscripts.
Okay, first of all, that's not a world.
And even if it were, they would
not have superheroes.
You know, he found the Gamea
Prayer book in a library in Croatia.
It hadn't been seen
in three centuries.
McTavish spent
15 years tracking it down.
- So he's a nerd.
- Big time.
Hmm.
But you know what's strange
is he's an expert
in illuminated manuscripts
from the middle ages,
and this book looks to be
from the 19th century.
Nothing is ever easy.
Okay, so, how do we proceed?
Well, same as usual.
No page will be left unturned.
Ahh.
Straight through the uprights.
Very nice. Very nice.
- How do I look?
- Oh! Yeah!
Uh... well, that's
a very challenging palette
for you, Angela, but you seem
to be pulling it off.
Damn.
What can I do to look worse?
Ma, you look like a Russian
nesting doll. What is up?
I'm breaking up with Sean today
and I didn't want to look too
good, to get him all hot and
bothered and that dump would be cruel.
I-I thought that you liked
Lieutenant Cavanaugh?
- I do, very much.
- But...?
But I'm re-thinking my life,
and I need to let go of Sean.
And I don't want to hurt him.
Okay, well, Ma, I can say
with the utmost certainty,
you have never looked worse.
- Thank you, sweetheart.
- You're welcome.
This doesn't happen often.
But right now, I'm very confused.
Oh, yeah,
you'll figure out that book
before you figure out my mother.
You didn't look hard enough, Donald.
We found it behind the safe
in McHale's office.
Listen... I've got you
dead to rights.
We have your fingerprints on a trash
can near the scene of his murder.
So, I'm gonna give you a chance
to make a deal for yourself.
Just tell me what makes this
book worth killing a man over?
The sound of your voice is
really starting to grate on me.
Look, I don't mind your silence.
Whatever you go to say,
write it down.
Well, I've really enjoyed
our little chat.
- Oh, my god.
- Don't freak out.
Why, because you've
completely disemboweled
the key piece of evidence
in my murder case?
I can put it back together
in 10 minutes,
which is probably 5 minutes more
than it took Brendan to make it.
- He made it?
- It's a Frankenstein.
The... the pages,
the front and back board,
the spine are all
from the 19th century,
but the glue and the thread
are less than a year old.
So, it's a counterfeit rare book?
Well, not in a meaningful sense.
A third-grader who liked rare
books would know it was a fake.
You and I were
very different third-graders.
- How much is it worth?
- Approximately?
- Ballpark.
- Absolutely nothing.
I know.
This is a setback.
Should I cancel with Jack?
What? No, we can't cancel
on him again.
So we go, then?
Or is there a third Jane-ian
option I haven't thought of?
I just can't figure out
why someone is willing to die
to hide a completely worthless
and fake book. I just...
I'll cancel.
- Hey, Ricky.
- Hi.
- You needed to see me?
- Yeah. Is, uh, this an okay time?
Yeah, sure. Uh, you want me
to buy you a cup of coffee?
Um... actually, I got my little
sister in the car waiting.
I'm taking her to a soccer game.
- Oh, fun. How old is she?
- She's 14.
And, thankfully, nothing like me
when I was that age, so...
gets straight A's,
respects her teachers.
- Nice, nice.
- Yeah, um...
Anyways, I was seeing if I could,
uh, go back to the book-store
you know, I know Brendan
wouldn't want it a mess,
and I just want to grab a broom
and straighten it up.
Okay, um... let me check
with the crime techs, okay?
- See when they're finished.
- Yeah, yeah. Thank you.
Sure.
I don't really, uh...
I don't really know what to do
with myself right now, you know?
Used to have a job, and Brendan
expected things of me.
Right. Well, you know,
just 'cause he's gone,
it doesn't mean you can't expect
those things of yourself.
Yeah. Yeah, of course.
Of course I can.
Do you know why this happened?
Do you know why someone
would have killed him?
- Not yet, no.
- Yeah, okay.
But I-I'll call you
as soon as I know, okay?
Yeah, thank you.
And, uh, thank you for checking
on that book-store thing for me.
Sure. Anytime.
So, have fun.
Tell your sister I said good luck.
Oh, she... she doesn't need it.
She's fierce.
Okay, all right.
Was there ever a moment, professor...
year 11, year 12... where you thought,
"the prayer book doesn't exist,
it's just a rumor"?
- You looked for something for 12 years?
- 15.
- Was it valuable?
- Very, from an intellectual perspective.
What's that mean?
Well, in classic economic terms,
the value of something
is determined when two parties
come to mutually agreeable terms.
But that's not possible
when the object
is of incalculable
cultural importance.
I'm not gonna lie to you, Dr. Isles,
there were moments I had doubts
I'd never find it, but...
I'm just one of those guys...
I can't put down the crossword
till I've finished it.
Perseverance...
secret of all triumphs.
Victor Hugo.
Well, from what I can tell,
your assessment's spot-on.
Any reputable dealer...
excuse me...
would recognize
the book as a fake.
- Have you X-rayed for microdots?
- Yes.
What about
a fluorescent examination,
see if there was under painting
behind the illustration?
Of course.
Again, nothing.
So, you're thinking
it's not the book itself,
- it¨s something hidden inside the book?
- Exactly.
I'll take it back to the university.
Won't take me long to get
to the bottom of this mystery.
No can do, buckaroo.
Chain of evidence, we can't let
it out of our possession.
- But someone wanted me to see it.
- And now you have.
Besides, however long it was
gonna take you to figure it out,
I'm guessing she'd do it
in half the time.
Well, very nice meeting you, Dr. Isles.
Buckaroo?
You have 7 1/2 years
and not a minute more.
- Hi.
Are you feeling okay, Angela?
You don't look so well.
- Thanks for coming to meet me.
- Of course.
You know, I think
you're a terrific person.
You're warm and funny,
kind and chivalrous.
And that's a rare quality today.
And we have
a wonderful time together,
- and we share a lot of interests.
- And I think we make sit up pretty good
- in the romance department, no?
- Yes. Yes, we do.
- But...?
- But...
unfortunately, I... I just
can't be with you anymore.
- Why?
- Okay, I know this is
gonna sound wacky, but I got
a fortune cookie last week,
and it read "start over."
- And I-I kind of knew what that meant.
- A fortune cookie?
Yeah... Look, it's not about
the fortune cookie.
- It's about being ready for the sign.
- And you're ready?
Well, I need to take a chance.
Be alone, without a man,
for once in my life.
So I get to know who I am.
- I understand.
- You do?
Yeah. All's I ever wanted was
for you to be happy, Angela.
And if something in
the cosmos told you that
starting over is the first step,
then you take that step.
Wow, you're even more terrific than
I thought you were, Sean Cavanaugh.
- But I do have one last question.
- Okay.
Where did you get that dress?
- Do you like it?
- No, not at all.
But that's okay, 'cause I remember
what you look like without it.
That guy doesn't move.
- I saw him blink 20 minutes ago.
- He's a well-trained monkey.
Makes me sick.
Me too, but there's nothing
we can do about it
If he wants to lawyer up
and ask for bail...
N-no...
No, I-I meant the bread.
Just... everything
makes me queasy.
Oh.
Detectives?
The suspect's lawyer's here.
Our cue to leave.
Korsak.
Well, well, well,
look what the cat drug in.
Saw your lawyer today.
Your lawyer represents this guy.
Don't know him.
Donald Maxwell.
He's involved in the murder
of a book seller
named Brendan McHale.
They're killing book sellers now?
What's next, the ice-cream man?
They broke his fingers one
by one until he died of shock.
Just seems like something they
would do back in the old days.
You think I'm involved?
I didn't come here
'cause I missed you.
Right. Well, in case you
haven't noticed, I'm in prison.
In case you haven't noticed, you're
still the biggest crime boss in Boston.
I had nothing to do with this.
Okay, but maybe
you still know some things.
The killer was looking for something.
Who sends this guy to find it?
How's Maura?
She's good.
Really good.
Nobody sends Donald Maxwell
to do something difficult.
He couldn't break wind without help.
- Then why is he at my crime scene?
- I don't know.
- But he's just an errand boy.
- An errand boy...
So, what... maybe he's helping
out somebody around Boston,
- somebody who's not from here?
- Sounds like Donald's speed.
Well, if he's driving
somebody around,
maybe he's got to get back to them.
- Thank you.
- Jane.
Yeah?
Now can you do me a favor?
They're releasing Maxwell
in 10 or 15 minutes.
Yeah, yeah, we'll be right behind him.
All right, bye, Jane.
Drive safe.
Jane's gone?
W-when will she be back?
Um...
She's going up to Wellington.
- Penitentiary?
- Yeah.
- For the case.
- You okay?
- Yeah.
- Uh, I got to go. Surveillance.
- Hmm.
He's stopping in front of 2264.
Make sure that's where
he's headed before we grab him.
You let me go on bail.
Yes, we did.
Aren't we nice?
Keep him quiet someplace else.
So, what do we do if he wasn't
meeting up with our killer?
He's married and he lives
on the South Side?
He would have rushed home
instead of rushing here.
Guess he's got a girlfriend.
So, it's heartfelt "I'm sorry"
and a call to his wife?
Seems only right.
- Let's go.
- Yeah.
Hey!
Police!
Don't hurt me!
Sometimes it pays to be
the slowest guy in the room.
- Hey.
You're here late.
Just trying to figure out
what this book is about.
Right.
- Anyway...
- I know you saw Paddy.
Yeah, Frankie
said he ran into you.
I was gonna tell you when I got back.
Look, you're just doing your job.
You don't owe me an explanation.
Paddy is being transferred to
a super-max prison at Atwater.
- Oh.
- Atwater's in California.
And why...
why are they moving him?
It's just a thing they do
with high-security felons.
It keeps them
from getting comfortable.
He said that he would like
to see you before he leaves.
Do we have anything left
to say to each other?
I mean, I don't know if you have
anything to say to him,
but I think he feels like he
would like to get some more
things off his chest, you
know, before it's too late.
But you don't have to go and listen.
- Off his chest.
- Yeah.
I mean, I think
he just feels, you know...
Sh... Maura?
- Are you okay?
- Brendan felt guilty.
Yeah, he... he hired the needy
intern and was going to church.
Clearly, he was working
through something.
And he was willing to
die to protect this book.
Because he wanted
McTavish to have it.
But it wasn't McTavish's expertise
that made him so important.
- It was his persistence.
- The riddle.
No, you looked.
You didn't find anything.
Because it's not in the book.
It is the book.
Brendan wasn't trying to make
a fake 19th-century book...
he made a book that pointed
to the 19th century.
And McTavish would have realized it...
not as fast as I did, but still...
that Brendan had hidden
something with a technique
that was primarily used during
that time called fore-edge painting.
He was involved in a bombing
that killed two people.
This is his confession.
- What are you doing?
- Watching her work.
- Your sister?
- No, the cop she's with.
She's British.
Her name's Gillian.
She's got one
of those accents, you know,
like James Bond and Mary Poppins
rolled into one.
Oh, even insults sound good
in that accent.
Yeah, I wish she'd insult me.
I'm such an idiot.
I took her to the break room
and I offered her coffee instead of tea.
Oh, the Queen would be mortified.
Right? I got so flustered.
What, is she Scotland Yard or MI6?
- I don't know.
- Probably not MI6,
or she'd have disappeared you
over the coffee thing.
Basically, she started talking
and I went into dreamland.
Tell me something, Korsak,
why do the Brits
sound so much smarter and
more sophisticated than we do?
Don't know.
I'm like that with Hungarians.
I hear those guttural sounds, I'm putty.
This is incredible.
How did you figure it out?
Are you some sort of bibliophile?
No, it... it... it wasn't me.
It was our resident
everything-o-phile, Dr. Maura Isles.
- I don't know everything.
- What's the capital of Chile?
- She knows.
- The victims were soldiers.
In all these years,
we've never had a single lead
as to who was responsible
for the bombing.
Mr. McHale's confession ties up
all the loose ends.
One thing I don't understand...
why did he hide his confession
in a book?
- Why didn't he just turn himself in?
- I think he was going to.
We still have active wire taps
on some of the former members
of Irish-liberation organizations.
We've been picking up
anxious chatter
about someone confessing
to the bombing.
His co-conspirators might
have been getting nervous.
So, the book was like
an insurance policy.
If something happened to him, at
least the truth would come out.
And he was right.
Now, with this, the forensic
evidence you uncovered,
the people you arrested,
and our wire taps,
we'll be able to close this case.
Thank you both for what you've done.
Victims' families have waited
a long time for answers.
If you ever have something
to tell me, just tell me, okay?
Don't use, like, codes or
invisible ink or talking animals.
A talking animal seems like
the worst way to hide a secret.
Have you never seen a pirate movie?
- Where are you going?
- Uh, to see Ricky.
He's waiting for me
in the break room.
- What are you gonna tell him?
- The truth.
You mean that sometimes the
people we love do horrible things
but it doesn't have anything to
do with how they feel about us?
Something like that, yeah.
Or I could just talk about doogles.
- Doodles.
- Either way, I think I could
use cross-bred puppies
as a metaphor for change.
I'm not sure
if that makes any sense,
either from a genealogy
perspective or an emotional one.
Or it could be brilliant and
you just haven't realized it.
- And it's Santiago.
- Brilliant!
Okay, Ma, you sure
you're not hurting yourself?
No, no. The body is meant
to be flexible, baby.
Okay, I... I don't think
it's meant to be that flexible.
I think you're right.
All right, so, how did it go
with Lieutenant Cavanaugh?
He understood.
What did he say about the dress?
Yeah, uh, he saw right through it.
He'll be okay.
What about you?
Are you okay?
Yeah, I'm good.
- Really?
- Yeah.
I'm not in a relationship,
I quit my job,
and I'll have a complete fresh start.
- Ma, you quit your job?
- Everything's got to change, baby.
For me, it's like I've got
to tear down the house,
right down to the foundation,
so I can start again.
- You got another job lined up?
- Nope.
This way I'll have absolute
freedom from everything.
Right, but the absolute freedom part
sounds like absolute absence of a plan.
Well, that's how you figure out
what you want to do next.
You're gonna have a lot
of free time on your hands.
Yeah, I'm excited.
And this way, I'll be able to help you.
W-what... you're gonna
still stay here at Maura's?
Who knows?
Wait, you know my couch
doesn't fold out, right?
Uh... Hey!
- Your earrings match.
- You're eating cream cheese.
Uh, yes, I'm throwing
caution to the wind.
Nauseous without cream cheese,
nauseous with.
So I figured I'd pick the best
option that has the most flavor.
Well, your mother's
not the only one making changes.
Mm.
Well, my first...
order of business
is that I'm ready to meet Jack.
- About that...
- I've cleared my schedule.
My toast will soon be eaten.
I have even researched the doodle.
I'm seriously considering
adopting a St. Bernadoodle.
They're very cute.
Well, I... I had to cancel
with Jack again.
- Aw, why?
- There's something that I need to do.
Something more impotant than Jack?
Yeah. And I could really use
some company.
Yeah, okay.
I'll be right here if you need me.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org